./ Copyright?
.TH plfsrc 5 12/3/2010
.SH NAME
plfsrc \- the configuration file for PLFS (Parallel Log Structured File System)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This configuration file defines the mapping between logical and physical paths on the parallel filesystem.  It also has some configuration options that PLFS will use to try and optimize performance.  This file is never written by PLFS, it is only read and it is the duty of the systems administrator to properly create and maintain this file.
./do I need something here about interpretatio order, ie cmd line option, then user file, then system file?
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file consists of one keyword argument pair per line.  Configuration options must be separated by whitespace, ie "keyword argument".  Any line with a # is not interpreted.  Path names must be fully qualified.  Note that all keywords and values should be in lower-case.
The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows:

.B
num_hostdirs
.RS
This should be the square root of the total number of compute nodes.
.RE
.B
threadpool_size
.RS
This value is set to the number of threads to run on a machine.
.RE
.B
backends
.RS
The location where you want the physcial containers to reside.
.RE
.B
mount_point
.RS
Where FUSE is mounted, and the logical paths passed to ADIO
.RE
.B
map
.RS
This is to hash by user name so directories may reside on multiple meatdata servers.  It reads the logical path, finds the user name, hashes it, and then constructs the physical path.  The beginning path must match the mount point given in the
.B
mount_point
keyword.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE
A configuration file might appear as follows:
.P
num_hostdirs 32
.br
threadpool_size 16
.br
backends /tmp/.plfs_store
.br
mount_point /tmp/plfs
.br
map /tmp/plfs/$1:HASH($1)/$1

.SH FILES
.I /etc/.plfsrc
.RS
The system wide configuration file.
.RE
.I ~/.plfsrc
.RS
Per user configuration file.
.RE


.SH AUTHORS
PLFS is developed at Los Alamos National Laboratory and is
available under LANL LA-CC-08-104. It is hosted at 
.I http://sourceforge.net/projects/plfs
and more information is available at 
.I http://institue.lanl.gov/plfs

.SH SEE ALSO
plfs(1)


