${COPYRIGHT}
.TH plfsrc 5 "${PACKAGE_STRING}" 

.SH NAME
plfsrc \- the configuration file for PLFS (Parallel Log Structured File System)

.SH DESCRIPTION
The configuration file which dictates where PLFS is accessed and where PLFS
stores user data and its own metadata.  This file can also specify various
performance optimizations and debugging behaviors.  The file is written by
the user and read by PLFS.  Be careful when editing this file; 
changing it can potentially disrupt PLFS's ability to 
read existing files.  If a plfsrc file must be changed, it is recommended to 
create a new mount point and copy files over.  Additionally, please use the 
'plfs_check_config' tool included in the installation after every edit to the 
plfsrc file. PLFS searches for this file in $ENV{'PLFSRC'}, $HOME/.plfsrc, 
/etc/plfsrc in that order and uses only the first file that it finds.

Essentially this file defines mount options.  However, we use a configuration
file because PLFS can be run without being mounted (e.g. using MPI-IO).

.SH FILE FORMAT
The file consists of a series of YAML structures and must conform to the YAML
1.2 spec in addition to the requirements outlined below. Any line starting with
a # is not interpreted. Path names must be fully qualified. Note that all
keywords should be in lower-case and whitespace is important. The "- " at the
beginning of a keyword denotes the beginning of a new configuration structure.
The possible keywords and their meanings are defined below.  Note that a plfsrc
file may describe multiple mount points; some keywords define global behavior
and others are specific to a single mountpoint.

.SH SIMPLE EXAMPLE
Here is an example of a bare-bones, but correct, plfsrc file. Like python, 
indentation is important and is defined by spaces.
.P
- global_params:
.br
  threadpool_size: 64
.br
- mount_point: /mnt/plfs
.br
  workload: shared_file
.br
  backends:
.br
    - location: posix:///mnt/lustre/pstore1

.SH COMMON KEYWORDS 
This section defines the most common keywords required in your plfsrc in order
to run plfs. 

.B
- include: <file>
.RS
This includes <file> at the point of the include keyword; thereby allowing 
nested configuration files. This is useful if you want to define global, 
consistent keyword definitions that can be used on different computers needing 
to mount the same file systems but with some differences.  For example, 
interactive nodes and compute nodes can share most of the values in an 
included shared configuration file but will independently define different 
values for threadpool_size. 
.RE

.B
- global_params:
.RS
This key must preceed the list of globally defined keywords. 
global configuration space. Only one global_parms mapping will be loaded upon 
initialization (the last global_parms structure loaded will overwrite any 
previous global parameters). There is no value associated with this keyword. 
Spacing is important, see example for details.
.RE

.B
  num_hostdirs: <value>
.RS
Global key specific to container mode.  Official rule:
.br
Let N be the size in PE's of the largest job that will be run on the system.
.br
Let S be the sqrt of that.
.br
Let P be the lowest prime number greater than or equal to S.
.br
Set num_hostdirs to be P.

For example, say that the largest job that can be run on cluster C is 10K PEs.  
num_hostdirs should be set to 101.

Explanation:
PLFS uses num_hostdirs to create balanced sub-directories.

Optional.  Default is 32.  Max is 1024.
.RE

.B
  threadpool_size: <value>
.RS
Global key.  This value is set to the number of threads to run on a machine; for machines 
used in large jobs, this value should probably be around 2; for machines used 
in small jobs (like file transfer nodes), this value should probably be around 
16.

Optional.  Default is 8.
.RE

.B
- mount_point: <path>
.RS

This key defines a plfs mount point and must preceed the list of keys specific
to that mount point.  This is the path used by users.
Several mount_point structures may be defined and each
must have their own distinct options to be correct (backends, etc). See example
for details.

Required.
.RE

.B
  backends:
.B
    - location: <prefix><path>
.B
      type: <value>
.RS
The paths(s) where plfs will store user data and its own metadata.  The prefix
can specify what type of storage system it is; currently supported values are
'posix:' and 'hdfs:'.  Each can optionally carry the "type:" descriptor that
will allow specification of the location being either "canonical" or "shadow"
type. The type is optional and not typically used and is defined further below.
Multiple locations can be used to distribute the PLFS workload across multiple
backend directories.

Note this option must appear after the mount_point keyword and only applies 
to the mount_point command that it follows.
Be careful: the backends directive is IMMUTABLE.  Once a mount point is 
defined, the backends can NEVER be changed.  If multiple machines share a 
PLFS mount point, they must all define the same exact set of backends in the 
same exact ordering.  When multiple machines share a mount point, it is 
recommended to use the include directive to allow you to define a mount point 
and its backends in one file and then include it, making it impossible to have 
different configurations on different machines.

Required.
.RE

.B
  workload: <value>
.RS
Mount point keyword.  This tells PLFS whether a specific mount_point is
intended for shared file workloads (i.e. N-1), file-per-proc workloads (i.e.
N-N) or small files workloads (i.e. 1-N).  Possible values are "shared_file",
"file_per_proc" or "small_file".  "n-1" can also be used in place of
"shared_file", "n-n" can also be used in place of "file_per_proc" and "1-n" can
alse be used in place of "small_file".  shared_file is intended for workloads
where multiple writers write concurrently to a single file.  small_file is
intended for workloads where each writer will create and write to a lot of
small files.  "file_per_proc" is for workloads in which many processes
concurrently create many files.  This should make a large metadata improvement
for most metadata workloads so long as multiple backends are defined for the
mount point.  This is especially true if each backend is serviced by a
different metadata server so that the metadata workload can be balanced
across multiple servers.

Note this option must appear within mount_point structure and only applies 
to the mount_point command that it follows.

Optional.  Default is shared_file.
.RE

.SH BURST BUFFER KEYWORDS
In container mode, PLFS can be configured to exploit burst buffers.  Burst buffers
are typically high-speed and low capacity storage devices such as flash memory 
backed by lower-speed, but higher capacity storage systems such as disk based
parallel file systems.  These keywords are how to enable this behavior.  Note that
applications will need to be further modified to use this mode by calling 
container_trim() and container_protect() functions to control data placement across 
the tiers.

.B
      shadow/canonical backend types
.RS
Backend keyword.  Shadow backends specify paths to burst buffers and canonical
specify paths to the larger slower storage systems.  This can be used in
instances where the canonical is desired to be on slow global storage devices
and the data pieces are desired to be on fast local storage devices.  In
scenarios with lots of different fast local mounts, different nodes will have
different sets of shadow backends defined so that each node always writes to
the fastest possible backend.  For reading, this will require that all
locations are visible everywhere.  For advanced development, the PLFS team has
used this to build "burst buffer" systems.

Optional.
.RE

.B
  syncer_ip: <value>
.RS
This is an advanced directive and will not be used in typical installations.  
This is used in conjunction with shadow backends and canonical backends.  It
is possible to use an RPC server to asynchronously copy data from 
shadow backends into canonical backends by specifying this value and by 
calling container_protect.

Note this option only applies to the canonical backends 
and/or shadow backends definition that it follows.

Optional.
.RE

.SH ADVANCED KEYWORDS
This section describes keywords which won't be typically used in standard
configurations but may be useful for performance tuning or debugging.

.B
  lazy_stat: <true/false>
.RS
Global key for container mode only.  The lazy_stat flag, when it is set as
false plfs will do slow stat(getattr).  This is only for querying the size of a
file handle that is currently open for write.  Doing a non-lazy stat of this
open file handle will be very slow but will give an accurate answer.  Doing a
lazy-stat of an open file handle will be very fast but might be inaccurate.
However, it will show monotonically increasing sizes.

Optional.  Default is true.
.RE

.B
  compress_contiguous: <true/false>
.RS
Global key for container mode only. The plfs metadata can grow
with every write to the file.  To reduce this growth, plfs tries to merge
related metadata but doesn't consider the timestamp of each write.  
Therefore it is possible for an old write to merge with a new write and 
gain the timestamp of the new write.  Then when plfs resolves any overwrites,
it may incorrectly apply the old write over a newer write since it has lost
the original timestamp of the old write.  For most shared_file workloads,
overwrites like this are unexpected so this behavior is fine.  However, if you
have a workload in which multiple processes writing to a shared file frequently
overwrite each other, you may want to set this to false.  Your metadata may be
larger and your read open time might therefore be slower, but your overwrites
will be resolved correctly (assuming cross-node clock skew isn't larger than 
time between overwrites).

Optional.  Default is true.
.RE

.B
  global_summary_dir: <path>
.RS
Global key for container mode only. The path into which to drop summary
information.  Useful to determine how much PLFS is being used and a bit of
information about how it is being used.  This must be set to a globally
writable and globally visible path.  When this is set, each close() will drop a
file into this directory with some statistical information in the filename.
This will happen on every close() for every proc when using FUSE and just on
rank 0's close() when using ADIO.  Be careful if you use this because this
directory can get very full and can cause performance problems.

Optional.
.RE

.B
  test_metalink: <true/false>
.RS
Global key for container mode only. This is only for developers to do testing.
It won't be explained here.  If you really want to know what it does, please
read the code.  Otherwise, do not use this directive.

Optional.  Default is false.
.RE

.B
  statfs: <path>
.RS
The path on which to resolve statfs calls received through FUSE.  Typically 
this is not specified but may be used to avoid hanging on mounts when 
backend volumes are not available.  This is because FUSE calls statfs when it
mounts and PLFS by default forwards that to one of the backends and this can
then hang. 

Note this option must appear within the mount_point structure and only applies 
to the mount_point command that it follows.

Optional.
.RE

.B
  glib_buffer_mbs: <value>
.RS
This option sets the in-memory Glibc buffer size (in megabytes) when using a 
glib:// backend store.  Larger values can improve performance on some systems
when performing many small writes.  This amount of memory will be used per open 
file per process so care should be taken when tuning this parameter when 
opening many files at a time or on systems with many processes per node.

Note this option must appear within the mount_point structure and only applies
to the mount_point command that it follows.

Optional. Default is 16.
.RE

.B
  index_buffer_mbs: <value>
.RS
Global key.  For container mode, this is the amount of memory (in megabytes)
that PLFS can use to buffer indexing information while it is writing files.
This buffer, if sufficiently large, enables subsequent optimizations which
improve read open times. This particular behavior is only available through the
MPI-IO interface and can be controlled by an optional hint of
"plfs_flatten_close."  When setting this value, bear in mind that every open
file handle can buffer this much memory so that total memory being used can be
much larger than this value.

Optional.  Default is 64.
.RE


.SH MLOG KEYWORDS 
This section describes the keywords which dictate the debugging behavior of plfs.

.B
  mlog_defmask: <value>
.RS
The default logging level.  This is used to control how much logging
is enabled.   Possible values: EMERG, ALERT, CRIT, ERR, WARN, NOTE, INFO
and DEBUG.

Optional.  The default is WARN.
.RE

.B
  mlog_setmasks:
.B
    <value1>
.B
    <value2>
.B
    <value3>
.RS
Resets the logging level for a subsystem (overwriting the default value).   
Currently defined subsystems are: plfs_misc, internal, container, index, 
writefile, fileops, utilities, store, FUSE, and MPI.  If the subsystem is 
omitted, then it sets the log mask for all subsystems.  For example the values 
"INFO", "index=DEBUG", and "container=DEBUG" set the mask for all subsystems to
INFO, and then sets index and container to DEBUG. One more more values may be 
defined (three are shown for example only).

Optional.
.RE

.B
  mlog_stderrmask: <value>
.RS
Level at which log messages are printed to stderr.   Useful if set to
a higher priority than the normal mask.   This allows users to only
have a subset of higher priority log messages printed to stderr.

Optional.  The default value is CRIT.
.RE

.B
  mlog_stderr: <true/false>
.RS
If set to true, causes all logged messages to be printed to stderr, 
irrespective of the value of mlog_stderrmask (e.g. for debugging).

Optional.  The default value is false.
.RE

.B
  mlog_file: <value>
.RS
If set, then this contains the name of the PLFS log file.   If not
set (the default), then logs are not saved to a file.  Macros of %p, %h, and
%t can be put in the filename; they are expanded to PID, HOSTNAME, and UNIX
EPOCH respectively.

Optional.
.RE

.B
  mlog_msgbuf_size: <value>
.RS
The size, in bytes of the in-memory log message buffer.  This is a
circular buffer containing the most recent logs.

Optional.  The default value is 4096. Min is 256.
.RE

.B
  mlog_syslog: <true/false>
.RS
If set to true, causes all logged messages to be sent the system's
syslog program with syslog(3).

Optional.  The default is false.
.RE

.B
  mlog_syslogfac: <value>
.RS
If mlog_syslog is true, then this contains the facility level used to
open syslog with openlog(3).  It must be of the format LOCALn
where "n" is between 0 and 7.

Optional.  The default is to use the USER facility.
.RE

.B
  mlog_ucon: <true/false>
.RS
A low-level debugging option that enables log messages to be sent
to a UDP socket (if set to true).

Optional.  The default is false.
.RE

.SH ADVANCED EXAMPLE
A configuration file might appear as follows (note that the indentation is 
important and is defined by spaces only, not tabs):
.P
- include: /path/to/filetoinclude
.br
- global_params:
.br
  num_hostdirs: 16
.br
  threadpool_size: 64
.br
  index_buffer_mbs: 16
.br
  lazy_stat: yes
.br
  global_summary_dir: /mount/nfs/summary
.br
  mlog_setmasks:
.br
    INFO
.br
    index=DEBUG
.br
    container=DEBUG
.br
  mlog_file: /tmp/logs/plfs-%p-%h-%t.log
.br
- mount_point: /mount/example
.br
  workload: shared_file
.br
  statfs: posix:///global/visible
.br
  backends:
.br
    - location: posix:///global/mount
.br
      type: canonical
.br
    - location: hdfs:///fast/storage1
.br
      type: shadow
.br
    - location: posix:///fast/storage2
.br
      type: shadow
.br
  syncer_ip: 192.168.0.1

.SH FILES
.I /etc/.plfsrc
.RS
The system wide configuration file.
.RE
.I ~/.plfsrc
.RS
Per user configuration file.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
${AUTHORS}

.SH SEE ALSO
A tool for checking the plfsrc file for correct syntax is included in the plfs 
distribution.  See 
.I plfs_check_config(1)
for more details. 
${SEEALSO5}
