#COPYRIGHT#
.TH PLFS 3 12/3/2010 "#PACKAGE_STRING#" 
.SH NAME
PLFS \- General information for PLFS (Parallel Log Structured File System) API
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the man page for using the PLFS-API method.  See
.I plfs(7)
for information on other ways to use PLFS.
.PP
In many parallel file systems such as Lustre, GPFS, and PanFS, concurrent
writes from large numbers of processes to a shared file suffers poor
performance due to low-level serialization in the parallel file system.
PLFS transparently rearranges concurrrent writes to avoid this serialization.
.PP
Users can interface with PLFS directly by rewriting their applications
to use the PLFS API.  Although this requires the most user effort,
it is possible to use this interface by minimally
using just plfs_open(), plfs_write(), plfs_read, and plfs_close().
All PLFS functions are either approximations of POSIX file IO calls or
utility functions.


.PP
Many of the utility functions are shared by the ADIO and the FUSE layers
of PLFS.  Typical applications should try to use those layers.  However,
it is also possible for an application to be ported to use the PLFS API
directly.  In this case, at a minimum, the application can call
plfs_open(), plfs_write(), plfs_read, plfs_close().

.SH RETURN VALUES
Most PLFS functions return 0 or -errno, except write and read which return
the number of bytes or -errno

.SH FILES
In order to use any of these interfaces, a configuration file must be
present on the system. (see 
.I plfsrc(5)
).



.SH AUTHORS
#AUTHORS#

.SH SEE ALSO
#SEEALSO3#

