#COPYRIGHT#
.TH PLFS 1 12/3/2010 "#PACKAGE_STRING#" 
.SH NAME
PLFS (Parallel Log Structured File System) \- PLFS-MNT information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./plfs [
.I fuse_options
.B ] <
.I mount point
.B >

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is to mount PLFS to use the PLFS-MNT method.  See
.I plfs(7)
for more information on other ways to use PLFS.
.PP
In many parallel file systems such as Lustre, GPFS, and PanFS, concurrent
writes from large numbers of processes to a shared file suffers poor
performance due to low-level serialization in the parallel file system.
PLFS transparently rearranges concurrrent writes to avoid this serialization.

.PP
In many parallel file systems such as Lustre, GPFS, and PanFS, concurrent
writes from large numbers of processes to a shared file suffers poor
performance due to low-level serialization in the parallel file system.
PLFS transparently rearranges concurrrent writes to avoid this serialization.
.PP
This interface provides the most transparency to the user.  PLFS is mounted
as a file system and users simply perform normal file system operations.
This option requires FUSE.  Although this option gives improved performance,
very large-scale parallel applications are encouraged to use the PLFS-MPI-IO
interface which provides even larger improvements.


.SH INPUTS
fuse options
.br
See fuse documentation for possible options.  The most relevant to plfs are:
.TP 1i
direct_io
Available for older versions of fuse.  This option doesn't allow executables to
be run in the mount point but increases performance for PLFS.
.TP 1i
big_writes
Available for newer versions of fuse.  Includes benefits of direct_io
option and allows executables to be run in the mount point.

.SH RETURN VALUE
A 1 is returned on success and 0 or -errno is returned on failure.

.SH FILES
In order to use any of these interfaces, a configuration file must be
present on the system. (see 
.I plfsrc(5)
).


.SH AUTHORS
#AUTHORS#

.SH SEE ALSO
#SEEALSO#

